
# LARA  - _A Monte Car**L**o framework for optim**A**l cont**R**ol of plasm**A**_

The program solves optimal control problems governed by the non-linear kinetic equations including external forces and a collision term in a Monte Carlo framwork.

## Dependencies and required libraries
The code was optimized for Ubuntu 18.04 LTS. Before downloading the dependencies, make sure that Ubuntu is up-to-date  using ```sudo apt-get update``` and ```sudo apt-get upgrade```.

To use the optimizer, ```vstrap``` must be installed on the machine.

Before compiling the code the following dependencies and libraries must be installed:
+ [Armadillo](http://arma.sourceforge.net/docs.html) (this includes lapacke and blas): install using 
```sudo apt install liblapack-dev libblas-dev libarmadillo-dev```
+ openMP: install using 
```sudo apt install libomp-dev```
+ boost: install using 
```sudo apt install boost-dev```
+ build-essentials: install using
+ ```sudo apt-get install build-essential```
+ cmake: install using 
```sudo apt install cmake```

For **optional** postprocessing ```python3``` should be installed including the packages
+ argparse
+ pyplot from matplotlib
+ tikzplotlib
+ numpy 
+ math
+ pandas

The packages can be installed using the following commands
```sh
sudo apt install python3-pip -y
pip3 install matplotlib tikzplotlib pandas numpy
```


## Problem specifications

In the file _Optim_input.xml_ it is possible to specify the parameters used by the program.
View the comments in te file to get information about the purpose of each parameter.
The file ```src/controller/optim_controller.cpp``` is the core of the optimization.

## Structure of the code
The source code is structured in five categories:
+ **src/controller**: 	contains auxiliary subroutines like generating of probability density functions (pdf) and controller for input/output 
+ **src/io**: 		contains methods for solving the linear kinetic and adjoint linear kinetic problem
+ ****: 	contains methods for keeping track of numbers important for optimization like value of functional
+ **src/logger**: 	core of optimization methods; contains important ncg subroutines and armijo-linesearch as well as functions providing the value of the functional and building the gradient
+ **src/objects**: 	contains python files for visualizing the results of the program
+ **src/optimization**:

Moreover, the program has four more plugins:
+ **data**: Here, several test-cases are specified
+ **optim-vstrap-toolset**: Imporant plugin for the connection between vstrap and the optimizer
+ **pprc**: Files for post-processing (python)
+ **test**: gtest files

## Compile and run the program
After speficying the parameters, it is possible to compile the code and start the program with the following commands executed in the directory containing the ```MOCOKI``` folder.
```sh
mkdir build-Optim && cd build-MOCOKI
cmake ../MOCOKI
make
./MOCOKI
```
Alternatively one can run the script ```setup_cmape.sh``` inside the ```MOCOKI``` folder.
The output files will be written in the same folder as the the executable, in this case in the folder ```build-MOKOCI```.

## Post-processing
There are ```python``` files to visualize the results of the MOCOKI code.
Assuming the build directory ```build-MOCOKI``` is at the same directory level as the ```MOCOKI``` folder, the following commands executed from the ```post_processing``` folder can be used to visualize data generated by the code.

The following command takes files containing data about development of the value of functional, norm of gradient, norm of control and stepsize during the optimization process and plots these.
```sh
python3 post_processing_optimization.py ../../build-MOCOKI/
```

The following command gives plots of the desired trajectory and the trajectory obtain with the MOCOKI code in phase space and plots the optimal control after finishing the optimization process.
```sh
 python3 solution_kinetic_model.py  ../../build-MOCOKI/
```

After running the python files, it is possible to generate tex-files containing the resulting figures using the files in the ```tikz/``` folder.


## Using the dockerized version 
It is possible to install a docker containing all the needed libraries and dependencies using the following commands executed in the folder in which the ```mocoki-image.tar``` file is located.
```sh
sudo docker load < mocoki-image.tar #loads image
sudo docker run --name container_mocoki -it mocoki #creates and starts container named 'container_mocoki' using the mocoki:latest image
```
After exiting the container, it can be started again using the command
```sh
sudo docker container start -ai container_mocoki

Inside the container go inside the ```MOCOKI``` folder and run
```sh
sh setup_cmake.sh
```

This will execute the current version of the code.

You can also change the code outside the docker container and copy it into and from the container using the commands
```sh
sudo docker cp MOCOKI/ container_mocoki:MOCOKI #copy inside the container
sudo docker cp container_mocoki:build-MOCOKI build-MOCOKI-v08 #copy build folder from container to local machine
```
The ```sudo``` command may be discarded inside docker.

